# Design decisions
Design pattern assignment for this project was challenging enough to have several viable solutions. One of those choices was the integration of customization options for consumables. The classes and enumerables could very well implement a Decorator pattern and not alter other parts of the project in any major way. The MVC implementation was straightforward, as the project was still in its early form that didn't contradict the MVC principle. The rest of the design decisions involved some uncertainty in their selection, but in the end the resulting structure of the project proved to be flexible with low coupling and high cohesion. 
# Coding difficulties & Debugging
Coding your own project can be complicated, but coding group project together can elevate the difficulty to the new heights. In my experience the most amount of troubles was caused by misunderstanding of what others will implement in their parts. Some classes featured the functionality of yet to be created classes, which made it harder to understand what is functioning and what needs a refactoring. In some cases after the classes were ready there was no expected functionality, which meant that the project was riddled with errors since long before the new implementation.
# Integrating others' work
Integration of someone else's work would be near impossible without such tools as GitHub and its functionality of updating your own local repository with changes from remote one. That's why it was more challenging if somebody didn't adhere to the commonly applied policies. Mismatches in package declaration and import, misunderstanding of a folder structure, disregard of files that monitor everybody's version of plugins and dependencies such as pom.xml, all of these actions can subverse the team work. That's why it was very important to monitor and fix such minor mistakes each time, so that there were less possibilities for the whole project to become incomprehensible for an outsider.